h1. ActiveLdap Fabrication

"ActiveLdap":http://activeldap.github.io/ adapter for "Fabrication":http://fabricationgem.org/.

h2. Description

'ActiveLdap Fabrication' is an ActiveLdap adapter for Fabrication. It means that you can use Fabrication as fixture replacement for ActiveLdap.

h2. Requirements

* "ActiveLdap":http://activeldap.github.io/
* "Fabrication":http://fabricationgem.org/

h2. Install

Here are install steps for Rails 3:
* Add activeldap-fabrication gem to your Gemfile.
* Change fixture_replacement to Fabrication in your config/application.rb.
* Add @require "active_ldap_fabrication"@ in your test/test_helper.rb or spec/spec_helper.rb.

Gemfile:

<pre>
group :development, :test do
  # ...
  gem "activeldap-fabrication" # <- Add this.
end
</pre>

config/application.rb:

<pre>
config.generators do |g|
  # For test-unit
  g.test_framework :test_unit, :fixture => true, :fixture_replacement => "fabrication"
  g.fixture_replacement :fabrication, :dir => "test/fabricators"
  # For RSpec
  # g.test_framework      :rspec, :fixture => true, :fixture_replacement => "fabrication"
  # g.fixture_replacement :fabrication
end
</pre>

test/test_helper.rb:

<pre>
ENV["RAILS_ENV"] = "test"
require File.expand_path('../../config/environment', __FILE__)
require 'rails/test_help'
require "active_ldap_fabrication" # <- Add this.

class ActiveSupport::TestCase
  # Add more helper methods to be used by all tests here...

  # LDAP: start
  setup do
    @dumped_data = nil
    begin
      @dumped_data = ActiveLdap::Base.dump(:scope => :sub)
    rescue ActiveLdap::ConnectionError
    end
    ActiveLdap::Base.delete_all(nil, :scope => :sub)
    populate_ldap
  end

  teardown do
    if @dumped_data
      ActiveLdap::Base.setup_connection
      ActiveLdap::Base.delete_all(nil, :scope => :sub)
      ActiveLdap::Base.load(@dumped_data)
    end
  end

  def populate_ldap
    populate_ldap_base
    populate_ldap_ou
  end

  def populate_ldap_base
    ActiveLdap::Populate.ensure_base
  end

  def populate_ldap_ou
  end
  # LDAP: end
end
</pre>

h2. Usage

We generate User model:

<pre class="command">
% script/rails generate model User --classes person
</pre>

We populate ou=Users on setup in test/test_helper.rb:

<pre>
# ...
class ActiveSupport::TestCase
  # ...
  def populate_ldap_ou
    ActiveLdap::Populate.ensure_ou("Users") # <- Add this.
  end
end
</pre>

We define test data in test/fabricators/user_fabricator.rb:

<pre>
Fabricator(:user) do
end

Fabricator(:bob, :from => :user) do
  cn "Bob"
  sn "Dyran"
end
</pre>

We add a test for User model in test/unit/user_test.rb:

<pre>
require 'test_helper'

class UserTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
   test "cn" do
     assert_equal("Bob", Fabricate(:bob).cn)
   end
end
</pre>

We run tests:

<pre class="command">
% bundle exec rake test
Loaded suite /var/lib/gems/1.9.1/gems/rake-0.9.2/lib/rake/rake_test_loader
Started

UserTest:
     PASS cn (1.10s)

Finished in 1.101005 seconds.

1 tests, 1 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
</pre>

h2. Author

* Copyright (C) 2011 Kouhei Sutou _<kou@clear-code.com>_

h2. Licence

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it.  It is dual licensed under Ruby's license and under the terms of the Lesser GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1, or (at your option) any later version.

Please see the file COPYING for the terms of the licence.

h2. Thanks

* ...
